JavaScript is a subset of TypeScript.
TypeScript provides type safety. Ex: If a property is not defined in an object, it shows when you type in the code but JS allows typing (ex: user.email no error underline). JS allows 2 + "2" and give '22'. But it doesn't allow in TS.
Provides static checking - Giving errors while writing the code and analyzing the code.
TS code is converted to a JS code before running.
TS is a development tool.

Advantage of TS - It automatically checks what type of input/output should be coming in or going out. No need to check explicitly. Ex: In a function, input parameter types and return variables.

TSlang playground - can compare TS and JS codes
https://www.typescriptlang.org/play/

Official doc - https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/

Globally Installing TypeScript
First node must be installed. Check version --> node -v
--> npm install -g typescript
--> tsc -v

Create a .ts file.

To run it
--> tsc intro.ts
This will create the corresponding JS file

Types available in TS - Number, String, Boolean, Null, Undefined, Void, Object, Array, Tuples, Never, Unknown and more.
Any - ignores type. Using this is not a good practice.
Cannot specifically say integers or floats. Only numbers.

TS variable declaration
let variableName: type = value
Always :type giving the type is not a good practice. It's overworking the TS.


03. Pure TS

--> tsc --init
This will create a TS config file

--> npm init -y
creates the package.json file. By adding -y it does not ask questions

Then create index.html file. Hit ! and enter to auto type the default html file. Include script tag in the body.

Then create src and dist directories. Add index.ts in src and index.js in dist.
Then add the index.js file path in index.html.

To indicate how the TS will be converted, go to the tsconfig file and modify this line. Enter the directory name of JS file.
"outDir": "./dist"

--> tsc -w
Watch mode. This is going to keep things running and the JS file will be auto compiled.

To run the index.html, install lite-server. Can use liveserver as well but this is better.
--> npm i lite-server
Then change the package.json script to
"start": "lite-server"

Then start the server
--> npm start
Also keep the tsc watch mode running
--> tsc -w


